Specification for communication between the Robot Control Board and the Robot Control Daemon, v1.0
Johannes Sulkakoski, 2014



Intro
This specification is in respect to the UHERobot physical specification v1.0 . Reader is presumed to be familiar with this.

1. Physical and logical link
The Control Daemon and the Control Board communicate via an UART serial link, at a baud rate of 9600bps. The relatively slow speed was chosen due to a lack of CTS and DTR signals in the physical connection.

2. Message structure
A control message consists of a message start symbol, one header byte, 0-20 data bytes and one end-of-message symbol. The header byte defines the purpose of the message. However, separate sets of header byte values are used daemon-to-board and board-to-daemon. The message data is BASE16-encoded.

Different symbols may be added later. The current set of control symbols are:
BEGINNING_OF_MESSAGE = 'b'
END_OF_MESSAGE = 'e'

The BASE16 symbols are:
0-9, A-F

All symbols for communication are ASCII-encoded and case-sensitive.

3. Message logic
Both parties may send a message at any time, asynchronously. Messages in general do not require an immediate reply. However, a silence of 2 seconds in either direction will result in the presumption of a dead link. Therefore, both parties will send a heartbeat message if no other communication has been done for 1 second. In the event that one party experiences the no-messages timeout, it shall enter a safe state and attempt to notify the other party by periodically transmitting an error message.

4. Message types
The message type is determined only by the header byte in messages that are started with the symbol 'b'. Otheer start symbols may be added later. The header bytes shall be defined in code as an enumeration.

4.1 Daemon-to-board

SET_MOTORS = 0
SET_SERVOS = 1
HEARTBEAT = 2
ERROR = 3
GET_ANALOG_READING = 4
SET_DIGITAL_PIN = 5
HALT = 6

Messages explained below.

4.1.1 Set motor speed
Header value: 0
Data bytes: 2

This message is a command to set the speed of the 2 drive motors of the robot. 2 bytes of data; one for each motor. The bytes shall be interpreted as signed binary values in the range of -128 - 127, where 127 means full speed forward and -128 full speed in reverse. 0 means a halt of rotation.

4.1.2 Set servo positions
Header value: 1
Data bytes: 2-x, depending on the number of servos onboard.

This message is a command to move the onboard servos to a different position. The data bytes are interpreted as unsigned binary values in the range 0-255, where 128 signifies the middle position in the range of motion of the servo. 

4.1.3 Heartbeat
Header value: 2
Data bytes: 0

A heartbeat will be sent if no other data has been sent for 1 second. It will be discarded on reception, but will cause the inactivity timeout to reset.

4.1.4 Error
Header value: 3
Data bytes: 0-10

An error frame will cause the robot to stop immediately and shut down any external power components. The payload data may contain any relevant information on the cause of the error, but that is not defined in this specification.

4.1.5 Get analog reading
Header value: 4
Data bytes: 1

Causes the board to take a measurement from an analog input and send it back to the daemon. The analog input used is determined from the payload data byte, which is interpreted as an unsigned binary value in range 0-255. A request with a port number out of the range of installed ports is considered an error.

4.1.6 Se digital output
Header value: 5
Data bytes: 2

LOW = 0
HIGH = 1
H-Z = 2

Causes the board to set a digital output, numbered by the first byte, to either high, low, or high-impedance state, as determined by the second byte, with values 1, 0, and 2, respectively. A request with a port number or state number out of available range is considered an error. Both nnumbers are interpreted as unssigned integer values.

4.1.7 Halt
Header value: 6
Data bytes: 0

Causes the robot to stop any movement, but make no other action.


4.2 Board-to-daemon

HEARTBEAT = 0
ANALOG_READING = 1

Data bytes: 2

4.2.1 Heartbeat

Header value: 0
Data bytes: 1

If no other data is sent within 1 seconds, a heartbeat message will be sent, to prevent a communications timeout.

4.2.1 Analog reading

Header value: 1
Data bytes: 3 - 5

This message carries the last value from an analog measurement on one of the analog input pins of the board. The byte represents the port of the measurement. The rest represent the value measured. The number of bytes for the value depends on the resolution of the measuring ADC. However, in all cases they are interpreted as an unsigned integer value, sent MSB first, and right-adjusted.


